.TH rusmux "1" "February 10, 2026" "rusmux 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rusmux \- manage your tmux project sessions

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rusmux
.I command
[arguments]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rusmux
is a tool designed to manage and automate project session-based tasks with a variety of commands
for different actions involving project lifecycle management.

Features include:
.IP
- Utilize existing `.yaml` project files from tmuxinator.
.IP
- A standalone binary for easy distribution.
.IP
- Use tmux to manage various project sessions efficiently.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B run
Run the project's commands (aliases: start, r).
.I Arguments:
Project name or filesystem path.
Example:
.nf
rusmux run my_project
rusmux run /path/to/project.yaml
.fi

.TP
.B stop
Stop a project's session (aliases: kill, s).
.I Arguments:
Project name or filesystem path.
Example:
.nf
rusmux stop my_project
.fi

.TP
.B debug
Output shell commands for a project.
.I Arguments:
Project name or filesystem path.
Example:
.nf
rusmux debug my_project
.fi

.TP
.B edit
Edit an existing project configuration.
.I Arguments:
Project name or filesystem path.
Ensure `$EDITOR` is set in your environment.
Example:
.nf
rusmux edit my_project
.fi

.TP
.B delete
Delete an existing project (confirmation required).
.I Arguments:
Project name or filesystem path.
Example:
.nf
rusmux delete my_project
.fi

.TP
.B new
Create a new project.
.I Arguments:
Project name or filesystem path.
Optional Flags:
\fB--blank\fR Don't use a template for the file.
Examples:
.nf
rusmux new my_project
rusmux new my_project --blank
.fi

.TP
.B list
List all existing projects in the configuration directory (alias: ls).
Example:
.nf
rusmux list
.fi

.TP
.B copy
Copy an existing project to a new one and edit it.
.I Arguments:
Existing project name or filesystem path.
New project name or filesystem path.
Example:
.nf
rusmux copy old_project new_project
.fi

.TP
.B doctor
Check your environment for potential issues, such as missing dependencies or
unset variables like `$SHELL` and `$EDITOR`.
Example:
.nf
rusmux doctor
.fi

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Using a pre-configured project
To run a project from its name of an existing `.yaml`, use:
.nf
rusmux run demo
.fi
.TP
.B Adding shell completions
To enable shell completions for `bash`:
.nf
sudo cp completions/rusmux.bash /usr/share/bash-completion/completions/rusmux
.fi
For zsh:
.nf
sudo cp completions/rusmux.zsh /usr/share/zsh/site-functions/_rusmux
.fi
For fish:
.nf
sudo cp completions/rusmux.fish /usr/share/fish/vendor_completions.d/rusmux.fish
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.tmux", tmuxinator....Similar

